# Use Markdown Architectural Decision Records For Any Decisions

## Context and Problem Statement

It is necessary to document all important decisions made during the project. The standard approach for this is ADR - architecture decision records. We will have the following benefits if we use them:

1. The formal process of decision documenting will force the team members to think more thoroughly about possible options and their trade-offs, thus reducing the number of poor choices.
2. Writing ADRs will be an excellent exercise for improving software design skills.
3. Team members will be able to review decisions using pull requests, which will allow them to do so asynchronously and more thoughtfully.
4. If a team member will have any questions about implementing a feature, ADRs will be a good place to consult and learn how to do it.
5. Evolving the system design and architecture will be easier based on the decision history.
6. New team members will be able to read through all ADRs and quickly gain a broad understanding of the system design and implementation, thus reducing onboarding time.

We will refer to ADR as Any Decision Record since it is vital to document all important decisions. Having said all the above, we must choose an ADR document format.

## Considered Options

* [MADR 4.0.0](https://adr.github.io/madr/) – The Markdown Architectural Decision Records
* [Michael Nygard's template](http://thinkrelevance.com/blog/2011/11/15/documenting-architecture-decisions) – The first incarnation of the term "ADR"
* [Sustainable Architectural Decisions](https://www.infoq.com/articles/sustainable-architectural-design-decisions) – The Y-Statements
* Other templates listed at <https://github.com/joelparkerhenderson/architecture_decision_record>
* Formless – No conventions for file format and structure

## Decision Outcome

The chosen option is MADR 4.0.0 because:

* It is the most comprehensive and structured format.
* It forces the author to list all options considered and their pros and cons, showing the effort needed to create a decision.
* It has a section with general information about a decision, which is convenient when additional free-form details are required.
